
	Formal Verification of Galois Field Arithmetic Circuits 
		using Computer Algebra Techniques


		Speaker: Priyank Kalla, ECE Dept., Univ. of Utah

Abstract:

With the spread of Internet and mobile devices, transferring
information safely and securely has become more important than
ever. Galois fields have many applications in such domains, such as in
elliptic curve cryptography, error correcting codes, signal
processing, VLSI testing, etc. In most applications,
e.g. cryptography, the field-size and the data-path size 
of the circuits can be very large, requiring (semi-) custom design and
specialized architectures for greater performance.   Formal
verification of such applications is imperative. However, due to their
large size and high complexity, formal verification of  such circuits
is beyond the capabilities of contemporary verification techniques. In
this talk, I will describe our work on formal verification of Galois
field circuits using computer-algebra based approaches -- notably,
Groebner bases theory and technology over Galois fields. 

While Groebner bases theory can be a very powerful symbolic reasoning
tool, the computation suffers from very high complexity -- doubly
exponential in the input data. Therefore, the focus of our work is on
attempting to overcome this complexity. In the talk, I will describe:
i) how to formulate various verification problems using
Nullstellensatz and Groebner bases; ii) how to exploit polynomial
function theory over Galois fields within a Groebner basis context for
verification; iii) how to analyze the given circuit information to get
more theoretical insights into the polynomial ideals, and use this
information to improve Groebner basis computation; iii) 
how to employ modern F4-style polynomial reduction techniques to
further improve the decision procedures. I will present the results
that we have achieved so far, and conclude the talk with some
discussion on future work and challenges.



Biography:
Priyank Kalla received the Bachelors degree in electronics engineering
from Sardar Patel University in 1993, and MS and PhD degrees from
Univ. of Massachusetts in 1998 and 2002, respectively. Since 2002, he
has been a faculty member at the ECE department at the Univ. of
Utah. In between his graduate studies, he has also worked at AMD and
DEC-Alpha CAD group. His areas of interest are in Electronic Design
Automation and Design Verification -- with a special focus on
verification of finite-precision arithmetic using computer-algebra
techniques.  He was the chair of IEEE Technical Committee on
Computer-Aided Network Design (CANDE) 2012, and the General Chair of
IEEE High-Level Design Validation and Test Workshop (HLDVT) 2009. 
He is a recipient of the US NSF Faculty Early Career Development
(CAREER) Award and the ACM Trans. on Design Automation 2009 best paper
award.  
